README.md, before:

<a href="https://demo-nextjs-with-supabase.vercel.app/">
  <img alt="Next.js and Supabase Starter Kit - the fastest way to build apps with Next.js and Supabase" src="https://demo-nextjs-with-supabase.vercel.app/opengraph-image.png">
  <h1 align="center">Next.js and Supabase Starter Kit</h1>
</a>

<p align="center">
  The fastest way to build apps with Next.js and Supabase
  <br/>
  <em>Forked from the official Next.js <code>with-supabase</code> example with Two-Factor Authentication added.</em>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="#features"><strong>Features</strong></a> ·
  <a href="#demo"><strong>Demo</strong></a> ·
  <a href="#deploy-to-vercel"><strong>Deploy to Vercel</strong></a> ·
  <a href="#clone-and-run-locally"><strong>Clone and run locally</strong></a> ·
  <a href="#feedback-and-issues"><strong>Feedback and issues</strong></a>
  <a href="#more-supabase-examples"><strong>More Examples</strong></a>
</p>
<br/>

## Features

- Works across the entire [Next.js](https://nextjs.org) stack
  - App Router
  - Pages Router
  - Middleware
  - Client
  - Server
  - It just works!
- supabase-ssr. A package to configure Supabase Auth to use cookies
- Password-based authentication block installed via the [Supabase UI Library](https://supabase.com/ui/docs/nextjs/password-based-auth)
- Styling with [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com)
- Components with [shadcn/ui](https://ui.shadcn.com/)
- Two-factor authentication via authenticator apps
- Optional deployment with [Supabase Vercel Integration and Vercel deploy](#deploy-your-own)
  - Environment variables automatically assigned to Vercel project

## Two-Factor Authentication

You can enable MFA under **Settings** after signing in.
Click **Enable 2FA**, scan the generated QR code in any authenticator app,
then verify the one-time code to secure your account.

## Demo

You can view a fully working demo at [demo-nextjs-with-supabase.vercel.app](https://demo-nextjs-with-supabase.vercel.app/).

## Deploy to Vercel

Vercel deployment will guide you through creating a Supabase account and project.

After installation of the Supabase integration, all relevant environment variables will be assigned to the project so the deployment is fully functioning.

[![Deploy with Vercel](https://vercel.com/button)](https://vercel.com/new/clone?repository-url=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fvercel%2Fnext.js%2Ftree%2Fcanary%2Fexamples%2Fwith-supabase&project-name=nextjs-with-supabase&repository-name=nextjs-with-supabase&demo-title=nextjs-with-supabase&demo-description=This+starter+configures+Supabase+Auth+to+use+cookies%2C+making+the+user%27s+session+available+throughout+the+entire+Next.js+app+-+Client+Components%2C+Server+Components%2C+Route+Handlers%2C+Server+Actions+and+Middleware.&demo-url=https%3A%2F%2Fdemo-nextjs-with-supabase.vercel.app%2F&external-id=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fvercel%2Fnext.js%2Ftree%2Fcanary%2Fexamples%2Fwith-supabase&demo-image=https%3A%2F%2Fdemo-nextjs-with-supabase.vercel.app%2Fopengraph-image.png)

The above will also clone the Starter kit to your GitHub, you can clone that locally and develop locally.

If you wish to just develop locally and not deploy to Vercel, [follow the steps below](#clone-and-run-locally).

## Clone and run locally

1. You'll first need a Supabase project which can be made [via the Supabase dashboard](https://database.new)

2. Create a Next.js app using the Supabase Starter template npx command

   ```bash
   npx create-next-app --example with-supabase with-supabase-app
   ```

   ```bash
   yarn create next-app --example with-supabase with-supabase-app
   ```

   ```bash
   pnpm create next-app --example with-supabase with-supabase-app
   ```

3. Use `cd` to change into the app's directory

   ```bash
   cd with-supabase-app
   ```

4. Install dependencies before running development commands like `npm run dev` or `npm run lint`

```bash
npm install
```

5. Rename `.env.example` to `.env.local` and update the following:

   ```
   NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_URL=[INSERT SUPABASE PROJECT URL]
   NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY=[INSERT SUPABASE PROJECT API ANON KEY]
   SMTP_HOST=[YOUR SMTP HOST]
   SMTP_PORT=[YOUR SMTP PORT]
   SMTP_USER=[YOUR SMTP USER]
   SMTP_PASS=[YOUR SMTP PASSWORD]
   MFA_EMAIL_FROM=[SENDER EMAIL ADDRESS]
   APP_NAME=[NAME OF YOUR APPLICATION]
   SUPPORT_EMAIL=[SUPPORT CONTACT ADDRESS]
   LOGO_IMAGE_URL=[URL TO EMAIL LOGO IMAGE]
   LOGIN_LINK=[URL FOR LOGIN PAGE]
   MFA_RECOVERY_LINK=http://localhost:3000/mfa-recovery
   APP_NAME=[YOUR APP NAME]
   SUPPORT_EMAIL=[SUPPORT EMAIL ADDRESS]

   ```

   Both `NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_URL` and `NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY` can be found in [your Supabase project's API settings](https://supabase.com/dashboard/project/_?showConnect=true)
   The SMTP variables, `APP_NAME`, and `SUPPORT_EMAIL` are used to send a recovery email containing a link to reset MFA if a user loses access to their authenticator device.

6. You can now run the Next.js local development server:

   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

   The starter kit should now be running on [localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000/).

6. Run the unit tests:

   ```bash
   npm test
   ```

7. This template comes with the default shadcn/ui style initialized. If you instead want other ui.shadcn styles, delete `components.json` and [re-install shadcn/ui](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/installation/next)

> Check out [the docs for Local Development](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/getting-started/local-development) to also run Supabase locally.

## Feedback and issues

Please file feedback and issues over on the [Supabase GitHub org](https://github.com/supabase/supabase/issues/new/choose).

## More Supabase examples

- [Next.js Subscription Payments Starter](https://github.com/vercel/nextjs-subscription-payments)
- [Cookie-based Auth and the Next.js 13 App Router (free course)](https://youtube.com/playlist?list=PL5S4mPUpp4OtMhpnp93EFSo42iQ40XjbF)
- [Supabase Auth and the Next.js App Router](https://github.com/supabase/supabase/tree/master/examples/auth/nextjs)

## Docker

docker build -t with-supabase-app .
docker run -p 3000:3000 with-supabase-app
docker-compose up --build -d

Commit message:

Add Prisma-based MFA example

README.md, after:

<a href="https://demo-nextjs-with-supabase.vercel.app/">
  <img alt="Next.js and Supabase Starter Kit - the fastest way to build apps with Next.js and Supabase" src="https://demo-nextjs-with-supabase.vercel.app/opengraph-image.png">
  <h1 align="center">Next.js and Supabase Starter Kit</h1>
</a>

<p align="center">
  The fastest way to build apps with Next.js and Supabase
  <br/>
  <em>Forked from the official Next.js <code>with-supabase</code> example with Two-Factor Authentication added.</em>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="#features"><strong>Features</strong></a> ·
  <a href="#demo"><strong>Demo</strong></a> ·
  <a href="#deploy-to-vercel"><strong>Deploy to Vercel</strong></a> ·
  <a href="#clone-and-run-locally"><strong>Clone and run locally</strong></a> ·
  <a href="#feedback-and-issues"><strong>Feedback and issues</strong></a>
  <a href="#more-supabase-examples"><strong>More Examples</strong></a>
</p>
<br/>

## Features

- Works across the entire [Next.js](https://nextjs.org) stack
  - App Router
  - Pages Router
  - Middleware
  - Client
  - Server
  - It just works!
- supabase-ssr. A package to configure Supabase Auth to use cookies
- Password-based authentication block installed via the [Supabase UI Library](https://supabase.com/ui/docs/nextjs/password-based-auth)
- Styling with [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com)
- Components with [shadcn/ui](https://ui.shadcn.com/)
- Two-factor authentication via authenticator apps
- Optional deployment with [Supabase Vercel Integration and Vercel deploy](#deploy-your-own)
  - Environment variables automatically assigned to Vercel project

## Two-Factor Authentication

You can enable MFA under **Settings** after signing in.
Click **Enable 2FA**, scan the generated QR code in any authenticator app,
then verify the one-time code to secure your account.

### Prisma-backed MFA example

If you prefer storing MFA secrets in your own database, this repo now includes a
Prisma implementation under `lib/actions/prismaMfa` and `lib/mfaStorePrisma.ts`.
After running `npx prisma migrate dev` and `npx prisma generate`, you can call
`enrollMFA`, `verifyMFA`, `recoverMfa` and `completeRecovery` with the current
user's ID from your session. Recovery emails are sent via the generic
`sendEmail` helper.

## Demo

You can view a fully working demo at [demo-nextjs-with-supabase.vercel.app](https://demo-nextjs-with-supabase.vercel.app/).

## Deploy to Vercel

Vercel deployment will guide you through creating a Supabase account and project.

After installation of the Supabase integration, all relevant environment variables will be assigned to the project so the deployment is fully functioning.

[![Deploy with Vercel](https://vercel.com/button)](https://vercel.com/new/clone?repository-url=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fvercel%2Fnext.js%2Ftree%2Fcanary%2Fexamples%2Fwith-supabase&project-name=nextjs-with-supabase&repository-name=nextjs-with-supabase&demo-title=nextjs-with-supabase&demo-description=This+starter+configures+Supabase+Auth+to+use+cookies%2C+making+the+user%27s+session+available+throughout+the+entire+Next.js+app+-+Client+Components%2C+Server+Components%2C+Route+Handlers%2C+Server+Actions+and+Middleware.&demo-url=https%3A%2F%2Fdemo-nextjs-with-supabase.vercel.app%2F&external-id=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fvercel%2Fnext.js%2Ftree%2Fcanary%2Fexamples%2Fwith-supabase&demo-image=https%3A%2F%2Fdemo-nextjs-with-supabase.vercel.app%2Fopengraph-image.png)

The above will also clone the Starter kit to your GitHub, you can clone that locally and develop locally.

If you wish to just develop locally and not deploy to Vercel, [follow the steps below](#clone-and-run-locally).

## Clone and run locally

1. You'll first need a Supabase project which can be made [via the Supabase dashboard](https://database.new)

2. Create a Next.js app using the Supabase Starter template npx command

   ```bash
   npx create-next-app --example with-supabase with-supabase-app
   ```

   ```bash
   yarn create next-app --example with-supabase with-supabase-app
   ```

   ```bash
   pnpm create next-app --example with-supabase with-supabase-app
   ```

3. Use `cd` to change into the app's directory

   ```bash
   cd with-supabase-app
   ```

4. Install dependencies before running development commands like `npm run dev` or `npm run lint`

```bash
npm install
```

5. Rename `.env.example` to `.env.local` and update the following:

   ```
   NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_URL=[INSERT SUPABASE PROJECT URL]
   NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY=[INSERT SUPABASE PROJECT API ANON KEY]
   SMTP_HOST=[YOUR SMTP HOST]
   SMTP_PORT=[YOUR SMTP PORT]
   SMTP_USER=[YOUR SMTP USER]
   SMTP_PASS=[YOUR SMTP PASSWORD]
   MFA_EMAIL_FROM=[SENDER EMAIL ADDRESS]
   APP_NAME=[NAME OF YOUR APPLICATION]
   SUPPORT_EMAIL=[SUPPORT CONTACT ADDRESS]
   LOGO_IMAGE_URL=[URL TO EMAIL LOGO IMAGE]
   LOGIN_LINK=[URL FOR LOGIN PAGE]
   MFA_RECOVERY_LINK=http://localhost:3000/mfa-recovery
   APP_NAME=[YOUR APP NAME]
   SUPPORT_EMAIL=[SUPPORT EMAIL ADDRESS]

   ```

   Both `NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_URL` and `NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY` can be found in [your Supabase project's API settings](https://supabase.com/dashboard/project/_?showConnect=true)
   The SMTP variables, `APP_NAME`, and `SUPPORT_EMAIL` are used to send a recovery email containing a link to reset MFA if a user loses access to their authenticator device.

6. You can now run the Next.js local development server:

   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

   The starter kit should now be running on [localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000/).

6. Run the unit tests:

   ```bash
   npm test
   ```

7. This template comes with the default shadcn/ui style initialized. If you instead want other ui.shadcn styles, delete `components.json` and [re-install shadcn/ui](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/installation/next)

> Check out [the docs for Local Development](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/getting-started/local-development) to also run Supabase locally.

## Feedback and issues

Please file feedback and issues over on the [Supabase GitHub org](https://github.com/supabase/supabase/issues/new/choose).

## More Supabase examples

- [Next.js Subscription Payments Starter](https://github.com/vercel/nextjs-subscription-payments)
- [Cookie-based Auth and the Next.js 13 App Router (free course)](https://youtube.com/playlist?list=PL5S4mPUpp4OtMhpnp93EFSo42iQ40XjbF)
- [Supabase Auth and the Next.js App Router](https://github.com/supabase/supabase/tree/master/examples/auth/nextjs)

## Docker

docker build -t with-supabase-app .
docker run -p 3000:3000 with-supabase-app
docker-compose up --build -d
